[master < gnn_node_classification] Docs for gnn node classification (#573)
memgraph/docs: mage/algorithms/machine-learning-graph-analytics/node-classification-algorithm.md

---

## Description
Node classification is the problem of finding out the **right label** for a **node** based on its **neighbors’ labels** and **structure similarities**.

> More formally, let `G=(V,E)` be a graph, `S` the set of all labels, and `f : V → S` a vertex labeling function that returns the correct label for each node. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
More formally, let `G=(V, E)` be a graph with vertices (nodes) `V` and edges (relationships) `E`, `S` the set of all labels, and `f : V → S` a vertex labeling function that returns the correct label for each node. 
```
We skipped this part

From a given partial function `g : V’ ⊆ V → S` (`V’` being training examples), 
a node classification model aims to minimize the loss of the label prediction function `g’ : V → S`.

The motivation for node classification models is the sociological concept of **homophily**. In social networks, individuals who associate and 

> bond with each other tend to have similar properties. In graph structure, **homophily** means that neighboring nodes 

Author: Done

tend to have the same labels and similar connections.  

> Set `V` can be a lot of things, and the most common are scientific publications, proteins, Reddit posts, etc. In the same respective order, 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In real-life datasets, the set `V` can be a lot of things, often scientific publications, proteins, Reddit posts, etc. In the same respective order, 
```

set `E` can be a citation of publications, protein connections, or connection of posts commented by the same user. Therefore, node classification helps the user to classify publications 
relevant to its field, check whether protein helps cure new diseases, or simply find out to which subreddit its post naturally belongs. 

> Given the not completely labeled graph, node classification tends to find the correct label for each node.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On incompletely labeled graphs, node classification seeks to find the right labels for unlabeled nodes.
```

### Solution 

> Solving methods range from **traditional** to **machine learning-based**. Both models work on top of the feature which describes each node. Together features and relationships between

Reviewer: What do you mean by traditional here?

Author: Like label propagation algorithms, or something similar like that

Reviewer: Thanks - I’d replace traditional with algorithmic here

nodes help the algorithm decide what is the correct label for each node.

The key difference is when using traditional methods, an engineer must create distinguishing features for each node himself.
On the other hand, the machine learning model learns and adapts almost any set of randomly initialized sets of numbers that represent node features.

For a traditional approach, extracting such a feature is not an easy problem, since there are many options to choose from — node properties, node adjacency, or the structure of the neighborhood.
Traditional methods of extracting knowledge from nodes include measures of [centrality](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Centrality), importance, or feature structure such as [graphlets](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Graphlets).

> Graph machine learning models can work based on almost arbitrary features. Their main strength is that model finds which features are similar for nodes with the same label, and 
> learns and maps such features as distinguishing ones. ML models are constantly developed. Here are some which are usually used in **node classification** tasks:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Graph machine learning models can work based on almost arbitrary features. Finding similar features for nodes with the same label, then
learning and mapping such features as distinguishing ones is their biggest advantage. ML models are constantly developed. Here are some which are usually used in **node classification** tasks:
```

### Implementation

[![Node classification](https://img.shields.io/badge/Node_classification-Implementation-FB6E00?logo=github&style=for-the-badge)](https://github.com/memgraph/mage/blob/main/python/node_classification.py)

[![Node classification](https://img.shields.io/badge/Node_classification-Documentation-FCC624?style=for-the-badge&logo=python&logoColor=white)](/mage/query-modules/python/node-classification-with-gnn)

> The machine learning approach for **node classification** is implemented within the project [**MAGE**](https://github.com/memgraph/mage). Be sure to check implementation :point_up: and test it yourself.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Machine learning-powered **node classification** is provided within [Memgraph MAGE](https://github.com/memgraph/mage). We encourage you to test it yourself and take a look at the implementation.
```
